docs: 7-module-declarations (#5162)
dfinity/motoko: doc/md/fundamentals/3-declarations/7-module-declarations.md

module Matrix {
  // Define what a matrix is - a 2D array of Nat
  public type Matrix = [[Nat]];

  // Create a matrix filled with a default value
  public func init(rows : Nat, cols : Nat, default : Nat) : Matrix {
    Array.tabulate<[Nat]>(rows, func (i : Nat) {
      Array.tabulate<Nat>(cols, func (j : Nat) {
        default
      })
    })
  };

  // Create an identity matrix (ones on diagonal, zeros elsewhere)
  public func identity(n : Nat) : Matrix {
    Array.tabulate<[Nat]>(n, func (i : Nat) {
      Array.tabulate<Nat>(n, func (j : Nat) {
        if (i == j) { 1 } else { 0 }
      })
    })
  };

  // Transpose a matrix (flip rows and columns)
  public func transpose(m : Matrix) : Matrix {
    if (m.size() == 0) return [];
    let rows = m.size();
    let cols = m[0].size();
    Array.tabulate<[Nat]>(cols, func (j: Nat) {
      Array.tabulate<Nat>(rows, func (i:Nat) {
        m[i][j]
      })
    })
  };
};
```

This module declares:

- A public type `Matrix.Matrix` for representing a 2D array of natural numbers `[[Nat]]`.
- Functions `Matrix.init()`, `Matrix.identity()`, and `Matrix.transpose()` for matrix operations.

:::note Functional programming style

> This module follows a functional programming approach: all operations return new matrices instead of modifying existing ones. This immutable design improves predictability and minimizes side effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module follows a functional programming approach: all operations return new matrices instead of modifying existing ones. The lack of side-effects makes this style of programming easier to reason about.
```

:::

> ## Module limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Module restrictions
```
```suggestion
## Module limitations
```

Modules cannot contain mutable state (`var`) or non-static expressions.

```motoko no-repl
module myModule {
  var x = 0; // not allowed! non-static expression in library
}
```

If you need mutable state, use an `actor` or an `object` inside an actor instead:

```motoko no-repl
persistent actor {
  var x = 0; // allowed because actors can have state
}
```

## Using modules

> Modules expose their public types and functions through dot notation. The module name serves as a namespace, helping prevent naming conflicts and group related functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Library modules are accessed using import declarations. Generally, it is good style to  re-use the name of the file for the name of the import.
The importing code is free to choose its own name for the imported module and can use a different name when necessary to avoid clashes. 

The public types and values of a module are accessed with the dot notation, also used for objects and actor fields.
The module name serves as a namespace, helping prevent naming conflicts and group related functionality.
```
